A residence card is an ID for foreign residents in Japan. It shows your identification information, period of stay, your status of residence, and so on.
A Person who is 16 years and over need to carry his / her residence card at all times.
It can be used as an ID when you carry out an official procedure at local government or enter into a contract.
A residence cards is issued to a person who stay in Japan over three months. (The person is called mid-to-long-term resident.)
Six cases in which residence card is not issued.
If a person granted permission to stay for three months or less, their residence card is not issued.
If a person granted “Temporary Visitor” status of residence, their residence card is not issued.
If a persons granted “Diplomat” or “Official” status of residence, their residence card is not issued.
If a staff members of the Japanese office of the Taiwan-Japan Relations Association (Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in Japan, etc.), or Permanent General Mission of Palestine in Japan who has “Designated Activities” status of residence, and his / her families their residence card is not issued.
If a special permanent resident, their residence card is not issued.
If a person with no statuses of residence their residence card is not issued.
When a new landing permit is given at Narita Airport, Haneda Airport, Chubu Airport, Kansai Airport, New Chitose Airport, Hiroshima Airport, and Fukuoka Airport A residence card is issued at the airport.
When a new landing permit is given at an airport or a port not mentioned above, Please submit a moving-in notification to the municipal office where you live. After that your Residence Card will be delivered to your house by mail.
When you receive permission for extension of the period of stay, Please apply for extension of period of stay (cf. 2-1) at the Regional Immigration Services Bureau (including district offices and branch offices of the regional immigration services bureau; the same shall apply hereinafter) before your period of stay expires. A new residence card will be issued if your application is permitted.
When you receive permission for change of the status of residence, If you need to change your status of residence, please apply for change of status of residence at the Regional Immigration Services Bureau (cf. 2-2). A new residence card will be issued if your application is permitted.
When you receive permission for acquisition of status of residence, If a child is born in Japan without Japanese nationality, and wishes to continue to stay in Japan beyond 60 days after he or she is born, it is necessary to apply for acquisition of his/her status of residence at the Regional Immigration Services Bureau within 30 days from the date of birth (cf. 2-4). A new residence card will be issued if his/her application is permitted.
A person who has had been issued a Residence Card need to register his / her address / place of residence (file moving-in notification) within 14 days after his / her residence has been determined. To file the notification, either a Residence Card or passport is needed
You need to apply for reissuance of a residence card at the Regional Immigration Services Bureau within 14 days of the day when the loss is known. The necessary document that you needed is Passport, A photograph (4 cm long × 3 cm wide, taken within the last three months. You don’t need to submit a photograph if you are under 16.), Documentation that proves reasons for loss of the Residence Card (Certificate of Lost Property Report, Report of Theft, Disaster Victim Notification, etc.), An application for reissuance of a Residence Card.
If you leaving Japan after finishing your activities, Please return your residence card to an Immigration officer at an airport or seaport when you leave Japan.
If your family member or someone you live with died or If you left Japan with re-entry permit but did not return to Japan within the validity period of the permit or When you were naturalized as a Japanese citizen, please return your residence card within 14 days by one of the following methods: Bring the residence card to the nearest Regional Immigration Services Bureau or Send the residence card by mail.
If you wish to continue to stay in Japan beyond your currently authorized period of stay, you need to apply for an extension of period of stay at a Regional Immigration Services Bureau. The necessary document that you needed is Passport, A photograph (4 cm long × 3 cm wide, taken within the last three months. You don’t need to submit a photograph if you are under 16.), A Residence Card (if you have been issued one already), An application form for extension of period of stay.


